[Docs] psm documentation (#3703)
The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD: src/psm/README.md

# IR Drop Analysis

> The IR Drop Analysis module in OpenROAD (`pdn`) is based on PDNSim, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IR Drop Analysis module in OpenROAD (`psm`) is based on PDNSim, 
```

| | |
| - | - |
| ![Image 1](doc/current_map.jpg) | ![Image 2](doc/IR_map.jpg) |
<p style="text-align: center;">(Left): Current Map, (Right): IR drop map</p>

## Commands

```{note}
- Parameters in square brackets `[-param param]` are optional.
- Parameters without square brackets `-param2 param2` are required.
```

### Analyze Power Grid

```tcl
analyze_power_grid
    [-vsrc vsrc_file]
    [-outfile out_file]
    [-error_file err_file]
    [-enable_em]
    [-em_outfile em_out_file]
    [-net net_name]
    [-dx bump_pitch_x]
    [-dy bump_pitch_y]
    [-node_density val_node_density]
    [-node_density_factor val_node_density_factor]
    [-corner corner]
```

#### Options

| Switch Name | Description |
| ----- | ----- |
| `-vsrc` | File to set the location of the power C4 bumps/IO pins. [Vsrc_aes.loc file](test/Vsrc_aes_vdd.loc) for an example with a description specified [here](doc/Vsrc_description.md). |
| `-dx`,`-dy` | These arguments set the bump pitch to decide the voltage source location in the absence of a vsrc file. Default bump pitch of 140um used in absence of these arguments and vsrc. |
| `-net` | Name of the net to analyze, power or ground net name. |

> | `-enable_em` | Flag to report current per power grid segment. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `-enable_em` | Report current per power grid segment. |
```

| `-outfile` | Filename specified per-instance voltage written into file. |

> | `-em_outfile` | Filename to write out the per segment current values into a file, can be specified only if `enable_em` flag is set. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `-em_outfile` | Write the per-segment current values into a file. This option is only available if used in combination with `-enable_em`. |
```

| `-voltage` | Sets the voltage on a specific net. If this command is not run, the voltage value is obtained from operating conditions in the Liberty file. |

> | `-node_density` | This value can be specfied by the user in microns to determine the node density on the standard cell rails. Cannot be used together with `node_density_factor`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `-node_density` | Node density (in microns) on the standard cell rails. It cannot be used together with `-node_density_factor`. |
```

| `-node_density_factor` | Factor which is multiplied by standard cell height to determine the node density on the std. cell rails. Cannot be used together with `node_density` The default value is `5`, and the allowed values are integers `[0, MAX_INT]`. |
| `-corner` | Corner to use for analysis. | 

### Check Power Grid

```tcl
check_power_grid -net net_name
```

#### Options

| Switch Name | Description |
| ----- | ----- |
| `-net` | Name of the net to analyze, power or ground net name. |

### Write Spice Power Grid

```tcl
write_pg_spice
    [-vsrc vsrc_file]
    [-outfile out_file]
    [-net net_name]
    [-dx bump_pitch_x]
    [-dy bump_pitch_y]
    [-corner corner]
```

#### Options

| Switch Name | Description |
| ----- | ----- |

> | `-vsrc` | File to set the location of the power C4 bumps/IO pins. [Vsrc_aes.loc file](test/Vsrc_aes_vdd.loc) for an example with a description specified [here](doc/Vsrc_description.md). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `-vsrc` | File to set the location of the power C4 bumps/IO pins. See [Vsrc_aes.loc file](test/Vsrc_aes_vdd.loc) for an example and its [description](doc/Vsrc_description.md). |
```

> | `-dx`,`-dy` | These arguments set the bump pitch to decide the voltage source location in the absence of a vsrc file. Default bump pitch of 140um used in absence of these arguments and vsrc. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `-dx`,`-dy` | Set the bump pitch to decide the voltage source location in the absence of a `vsrc` file. The default bump pitch is 140um if neither these arguments nor a `vsrc` file are given. |
```

> | `-net` | Name of the net to analyze, power or ground net name. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `-net` | Name of the net to analyze. Must be a power or ground net name. |
```

> | `-outfile` | Filename specified per-instance voltage written into file. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `-outfile` | Write per-instance voltage written into the file. |
```

| `-corner` | Corner to use for analysis. | 

### Set PDNSim Net voltage

```tcl
set_pdnsim_net_voltage
    [-net net_name]
    [-voltage volt]
```

#### Options

| Switch Name | Description |
| ----- | ----- |

> | `-net` | Name of the net to analyze, power or ground net name. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `-net` | Name of the net to analyze. It must be a power or ground net name. |
```

> | `-voltage` | Sets the voltage on a specific net. If this command is not run, the voltage value is obtained from operating conditions in the Liberty file. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `-voltage` | Sets the voltage on a specific net. If this option is not given, the Liberty file's voltage value is obtained from operating conditions. |
```

### Useful developer functions

If you are a developer, you might find these useful. More details can be found in the [source file](./src/pdnsim.cpp) or the [swig file](./src/pdnsim.i).

```tcl
# GUI debugging 
debug_gui

> ```

Reviewer: Where is this command?

Author: Seems it has been removed. Reflected in latest commit

## Example scripts

Example scripts demonstrating how to run PDNSim on a sample design on `aes` as follows:

```tcl
./test/aes_test_vdd.tcl
./test/aes_test_vss.tcl
```

## Regression tests

> There are a set of regression tests in `/test`. For more information, refer to this [section](../../README.md#regression-tests).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a set of regression tests in `./test`. For more information, refer to this [section](../../README.md#regression-tests).
```
